sql-statements: add/modify doc for `SELECT`, `SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS` and `SHOW STATS_META` (#2902)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-show-histograms.md

---
title: SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW HISTOGRAMS for TiDB database。
category: reference
---

# SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS

> This statement shows the histogram information collected by the  `ANALYZE` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This statement shows the histogram information collected by the `ANALYZE` statement.
```

> ## 语法图

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Synopsis
```

**ShowStmt**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFiltertable**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

**ShowLikeOrWhereOpt**

![ShowLikeOrWhereOpt](/media/sqlgram/ShowLikeOrWhereOpt.png)

> ## 示例

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
show stats_histograms where table_name = 't2';
```

```sql
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+----------+---------------------+----------------+------------+--------------+-------------+
| Db_name | Table_name | Partition_name | Column_name | Is_index | Update_time         | Distinct_count | Null_count | Avg_col_size | Correlation |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+----------+---------------------+----------------+------------+--------------+-------------+
| test    | t2         |                | b           |        0 | 2020-05-25 19:20:01 |              6 |          0 |         1.67 |           1 |
| test    | t2         |                | a           |        0 | 2020-05-25 19:20:01 |              6 |          0 |            8 |           0 |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+----------+---------------------+----------------+------------+--------------+-------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

> `SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS` is a TiDB specific grammer, thus there is no compatibility problem with MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS` is a TiDB specific syntax, and thus not compatible with MySQL.
```
